README.md, before:

# ALICE Analysis Task Example

---

## Description

The following code presents an example of data analysis macros used for ALICE Run 2 data. A future modification might include usage of the O<sup>2</sup> (Online-Offline) ALICE system. 
    
## Repository Content
    
This repository contains several files:
    
- This **README** file;
    
- A header (**AliAnalysisTaskMyTask.h**) file containing class methods' prototypes required for the analysis;
    
- A methods' implementation (**AliAnalysisTaskMyTask.cxx**) files corresponding to the header files;
    
- A class instance (**AddMyTask.C**) macro;
    
- A so called *steering* (**runAnalysis.C**) macro for defining JAliEn instructions for running on GRID.

The full code lisence can be found in *AliAnalysisTaskMyTask.cxx*.

## Prerequisites

In order to use the following code one must first install [AliPhysics](https://github.com/alisw/AliPhysics) via AliBuild. A complete guide for AliBuild download, installation and build can be found here: https://alice-doc.github.io/alice-analysis-tutorial/ (*please mind the platform-specific package requirements!*). After installing AliPhysics it can be verified by typing *alienv enter AliPhysics/latest*. If no errors appear, the installation has been successful.

## Usage

After entering the AliPhysics environment, the steering macros can be rub by typing *aliroot runAnalysis.C*.

The code must first be trouble-shot locally first. In order to run locally, the *localRun* option in the steering macro to *true*. An *AliAOD.root* file is required; it can be downloaded from any ALICE run folder (the easiest way to download it is via [AliMonitor](https://alimonitor.cern.ch/) from */alice/data/\**).

When all errors (and preferably warnings as well) are fixed, the code can be tested on GRID by setting the *gridTest* option in the steering macro to *true* (and the *localRun* option to *false*). For this repository's code 1 test file will be used. **Do not forget to use an up-to-date version of AliPhysics with JAliEn!**

> When this **README** file was written, the optimal AliPhysics version was *vAN-20201115_JALIEN-1*

After the code is tested on GRID, set the *gridTest* option to *false* and run the steering macros again. Several new files will be created: *.xml* collections for runs' data, *.sh* executables and merging *.C* macros. Your files will be copied to your GRID working directory. You can monitor the progress of your analysis with [AliMonitor](https://alimonitor.cern.ch/). 

When all GRID jobs are done, change the *SetRunMode* option to *terminate* at the end of the steering macro and run it. That will create merging jobs that will merge a lot of analysis results' files into a single *.root* file for each run. *All finished jobs will be killed automatically!* 

The last time the macro must be run with the *SetMergeViaJDL* option set to *false*. This will download a single *.root* file containing all analysis results on your PC/laptop. After that, the resulting file can be studied with additional ROOT macros.

## Gratitude

I am greatly thankful to Redmer Bertens, the author of the [ALICE Analysis Tutorial](https://alice-doc.github.io/alice-analysis-tutorial/), for detailed analysis instructions and for prompt responces to code modification proposals.

Commit message:

Minor imporvements
Improved documentation, ROOT5 support dropped.

README.md, after:

# ALICE Analysis Task Example

---

## Description

The following code presents an example of data analysis macros used for ALICE Run 2 data. A future modification might include usage of the O<sup>2</sup> (Online-Offline) ALICE system. 

Current version of the code is used to analyse ALICE 2016 (run K) data. The code only saves events that have passed the Minimum bias trigger. For these events, the transverse momentum (p<sub>T</sub>), the primary vertex Z coordinate (z<sub>V0</sub>), and the number of standart deviations from the TPC proton responce (N<sub>$\sigma$</sub>). The following cuts are applied:

- -10 cm < z<sub>V0</sub> < 10 cm;

- N<sub>$\sigma$</sub> < 3.
    
## Repository Content
    
This repository contains several files:
    
- This **README** file;
    
- A header (**AliAnalysisTaskMyTask.h**) file containing class methods' prototypes required for the analysis;
    
- A methods' implementation (**AliAnalysisTaskMyTask.cxx**) files corresponding to the header files;
    
- A class instance (**AddMyTask.C**) macro;
    
- A so called *steering* (**runAnalysis.C**) macro for defining JAliEn instructions for running on GRID.

The full code lisence can be found in *AliAnalysisTaskMyTask.cxx*.


## Prerequisites

In order to use the following code one must first install [AliPhysics](https://github.com/alisw/AliPhysics) via AliBuild. A complete guide for AliBuild download, installation and build can be found here: https://alice-doc.github.io/alice-analysis-tutorial/ (*please mind the platform-specific package requirements!*). After installing AliPhysics it can be verified by typing *alienv enter AliPhysics/latest*. If no errors appear, the installation has been successful.

## Usage

After entering the AliPhysics environment, the steering macros can be rub by typing *aliroot runAnalysis.C*.

The code must first be trouble-shot locally first. In order to run locally, the *localRun* option in the steering macro to *true*. An *AliAOD.root* file is required; it can be downloaded from any ALICE run folder (the easiest way to download it is via [AliMonitor](https://alimonitor.cern.ch/) from */alice/data/\**).

When all errors (and preferably warnings as well) are fixed, the code can be tested on GRID by setting the *gridTest* option in the steering macro to *true* (and the *localRun* option to *false*). For this repository's code 1 test file will be used. **Do not forget to use an up-to-date version of AliPhysics with JAliEn!**

> When this **README** file was written, the optimal AliPhysics version was *vAN-20201115_JALIEN-1*

After the code is tested on GRID, set the *gridTest* option to *false* and run the steering macros again. Several new files will be created: *.xml* collections for runs' data, *.sh* executables and merging *.C* macros. Your files will be copied to your GRID working directory. You can monitor the progress of your analysis with [AliMonitor](https://alimonitor.cern.ch/). 

When all GRID jobs are done, change the *SetRunMode* option to *terminate* at the end of the steering macro and run it. That will create merging jobs that will merge a lot of analysis results' files into a single file for each run. *All finished jobs will be killed automatically!* 

The last time the macro must be run with the *SetMergeViaJDL* option set to *false*. This will download a single *.root* file containing all analysis results on your PC/laptop. After that, the resulting file can be studied with additional ROOT macros.

## Gratitude

I am greatly thankful to Redmer Bertens, the author of the [ALICE Analysis Tutorial](https://alice-doc.github.io/alice-analysis-tutorial/), for detailed analysis instructions and for prompt responces to code modification proposals.
